HL7 - Kim Edits (#1323)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: hl7/4.2/modules/ROOT/edits/index.adoc

= HL7 EDI Connector 4.2 - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::hl7/hl7-connector.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Premium]

> Anypoint Connector HL7 EDI (HL7 EDI Connector) is a collection of features that facilitate integration with healthcare systems by providing the tools needed to easily create, read and transform HL7 version v2.x messages within Mule. Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a standards development organization that defines a set of standards for the transport and communication of healthcare information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for HL7 EDI (HL7 EDI Connector) is a collection of features that facilitate integration with healthcare systems by providing the tools needed to easily create, read, and transform HL7 v2.x messages within Mule. Health Level Seven International (HL7) is a standards development organization that defines a set of standards for the transport and communication of healthcare information.
```

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the HL7 EDI Connector Release Notes.

Standard schema definitions are included in HL7 EDI Connector for
HL7 versions 2.1, 2.2, 2.3.1, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.5.1, 2.6, 2.7,
2.7.1, 2.8, 2.8.1. The schemas are provided in two forms:

> * Standard HL7: using required or optional status data types,
> field lengths, and repetition counts (as listed) for each HL7 version. +
> 
> * Lax HL7: all segments and value items are optional. These
> low-level data types are treated as simple strings. Field lengths and repetition counts are not enforced.

Reviewer: Break per SR:
```suggestion
* Standard HL7
+
Uses required or optional status data types,
field lengths, and repetition counts (as listed) for each HL7 version. +

* Lax HL7
+
All segments and value items are optional. These
low-level data types are treated as simple strings. Field lengths and repetition counts are not enforced.
```

> Both forms of schemas are available in the connector `classpath`. Standard HL7

Reviewer: ...in the connector `classpath` <what? What is the object of the syntax `classpath`?>

Author: Fixed.

> schemas use the path: `/hl7/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl` +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
schemas use the path `/hl7/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl`. +
```

> Lax schemas use paths: `/hl7lax/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lax schemas use the path `/hl7lax/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl`.
```
Did you intend more than one of this type of path?

Author: Fixed.

> The schema definitions you need for xref:hl7-schemas.adoc[HL7 Supplied Schemas] are included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema definitions you need for xref:hl7-schemas.adoc[HL7 supplied schemas] are included.
```
Included where?

For complete information about schemas, see xref:x12-edi-connector::x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[EDI Schema Language Reference].

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)
* HL7 EDI Connector

To use HL7 EDI Connector, you must have:

> * Purchased a MuleSoft license for Anypoint B2B
> * Anypoint Studio 7.0 or later

Reviewer: Make parallel:
```suggestion
* A MuleSoft license for Anypoint B2B
* Anypoint Studio 7.0 or later
```

Reviewer: BREAK here to commit

Reviewer: RESUME with commit 5: 
Going forward, PLEASE send files as you complete them or in small groups rather than two whole documents in one PR request

=== Understanding the EDI Schema Language

> The HL7 EDI Connector uses a YAML format called EDI Schema Language (ESL) to represent EDI schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HL7 EDI Connector uses a YAML format called EDI Schema Language (ESL) to represent EDI schemas.
```

Basic ESLs define the structure of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) messages in terms of:

> * structures (message structures, in HL7 terminology)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* structures (_message structures_, in HL7 terminology)
```

* groups

* segments, composites, and elements

You can customize the HL7 schema definitions to suit your data by
copying and editing the schema definitions directly or by using a
console tool to generate a simplified schema based on one or more

> sample documents. It is also possible to use an overlay schema for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sample documents. Alternatively, you can use an overlay schema for
```
GLOBALLY reword any sentence that begins with "There is," "There are," "It is," and so on: false sentence subjects.

HL7, as with other EDI formats, but this option is not recommended
due to the complexity of HL7 definitions.

> You can define your own schemas from scratch, or copy and edit a base HL7 schema definition to suit your data as shown in the xref:x12-edi-connector::x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[EDI Schema Language Reference].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define your own schemas from scratch, or you can copy and edit a base HL7 schema definition to suit your data as shown in the xref:x12-edi-connector::x12-edi-schema-language-reference.adoc[EDI Schema Language Reference].
```
Is "base" the right word?

=== Finding the HL7 Schema Location

> To use the connector, you need to know the locations of the schemas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the connector, you must know the locations of the schemas
```

in your project. If you're using the out-of-the-box HL7 schemas and
not customizing anything, the standard schema location follows the
`/hl7/{version}/{message structure}.esl` pattern and the lax schema
location follows the `/hl7lax/{version}/{message structure}.esl` pattern.

> For example, if you're using the 2.5.1 version and the ADT_A01 message

Reviewer: version of what?

Author: Fixed.

structure, your schema location is `/hl7/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl` for the
standard version or `/hl7lax/v2_5_1/ADT_A01.esl` for the lax version.

> If you're using one or more custom schemas, put these under

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using one or more custom schemas, put these in
```

a directory in `src/main/mule` and refer to the location using `${app.home}`.

> For example, if you've put your ADT_A01 schema under `src/main/mule/mypartner/ADT_A01.esl,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you put your ADT_A01 schema under `src/main/mule/mypartner/ADT_A01.esl,
```

your schema location is `${app.home}/mypartner/ADT_A01.esl`.

The Mule runtime engine automatically checks `src/main/mule` for any locations
that contain the `${app.home}` value.

> == The Hierarchy of X12 EDI Connector Message Structure

Reviewer: What about it?

Author: HUH? Not sure what you are asking here.

Use this connector to read or write HL7 documents into (or from) the canonical ER7 message structure.
This structure is a hierarchy of Java Maps and Lists. You use either DataWeave or code to manipulate them.
Each transaction structure is defined in the schemas.

The message itself contains the following keys, some of which apply only to either the read operation or the write operation, as indicated:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===

> |Key name |Description

Reviewer: Per style ref., this should be a definition list and not a table: GLOBAL.

Reviewer: Key name > Key Name, as a column heading....

|ACK (read only) |Message generated by the module during the read operation. The `MSA-01` acknowledgment code value is based on the parser configuration settings.
|Data (read or write) |Wrapper for message data, with a key matching the message structure ID value that links to the actual data. Allows different messages to be included in the metadata and handled in DataWeave mappings.
|Delimiters (read or write) |The delimiters used for the message.
The characters in the string of delimiters are interpreted based on their position in string, in the following order: component separator, repetition separator, escape character, and subcomponent separator, with a value of `U` indicating no value in that position.
|Errors (read only) |A list of errors associated with the input message.
|Id |Message structure ID
|MSH (read only) |Link that receives MSH segment data

> |Name (read only) |Message structure name

Reviewer: These have to end with periods since their peer descriptions do. 
Try to make peer elements either all sentences or all fragments, to avoid this kind of issue.

|===

> Individual messages have their own maps, with keys matching the segments of the message. For example, an ACK message uses the message structure ID ACK, and the data for the sent or received ACK message is an ACK value in the Data map. The ACK message is itself a map, and the segments and groups of the message are represented as maps (in the case of singleton instances) or lists of maps (for repeating instances) with positional keys.

Reviewer: Why is Data capitalized?

> There are two special cases where using generic handling for data that is not included in a schema definition.

Reviewer: Ditto GLOBAL about beginning sentences with "There are":
```suggestion
In two special cases, use generic handling for data that is not included in a schema definition.
```

> The first is for HL7 values of the `varies` type. Since these values consist of any structure of components and subcomponents that can be repeated, the parser uses a list of map representations for each `varies` of type. The keys in each map are generated as the value is parsed, matching standard HL7 value names with two digits used for each nesting level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first case is HL7 values of the `varies` type. Because these values consist of any structure of components and subcomponents that can be repeated, the parser uses a list of map representations for each `varies` type. The keys in each map are generated as the value is parsed, matching standard HL7 value names with two digits used for each nesting level.
```

> So a simple text value for an `OBX-05 Observation Value` field, would use the key `OBX-05` in a map. If there are two components present, they use keys `OBX-05-01` and `OBX-05-02`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a simple text value for an `OBX-05 Observation Value` field would use the key `OBX-05` in a map. If there are two components present, they use keys `OBX-05-01` and `OBX-05-02`.
```

> The second is extension segments with tags that match a pattern configured under parser options. These are similar in structure to the `varies` values, with the exception of only being within a single map for the entire segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second case is when extension segments have tags that match a pattern configured under parser options. These are similar in structure to the `varies` values, with the exception of only being within a single map for the entire segment.
```

The maps containing extension segment data are added to the basic message map in lists with the key `ExtensionSegs`. In addition to the actual extension segment data, the map for the extension segment contains two other keys:

[%header%autowidth.spread]

> |===

Reviewer: Again, this should not be a table.

Author: STET.

|Key |Description

> |Ident |The extension segment identifier (tag)

Reviewer: Must end with a period because its peer does.
Again, try to make peers parallel in sentence structure.

> |Position |The position of the segment within the message structure, as a two-digit string. This is the same as the position of the immediately preceding defined segment, as defined in the schema. If a `ZVN` extension segment is used following the `EVN` segment in an `ADT_A01` message structure, the `ZVN` is at position `03)``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Position |The position of the segment within the message structure, as a two-digit string. This is the same as the position of the immediately preceding defined segment, as defined in the schema. If a `ZVN` extension segment is used following the `EVN` segment in an `ADT_A01` message structure, the `ZVN` is at position `03)`.
```

|===

If extension segments are used in nested groups, the list containing those segments are included in the map representing that group. Extension segments are ordered by position in the lists created by the parser, and must also be ordered by position when writing.

=== About Sending Acknowledgments

> An ACK (acknowledgment) message is an HL7 message that lets you acknowledge to a message sender that your application has received a message. ACK messages are the same as any other HL7 message writes, except that you set the ACK message to what was generated during the read operation as the output message under a `Data` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ACK (acknowledgment) message is an HL7 message that enables you to acknowledge to a message sender that your application has received a message. ACK messages are the same as any other HL7 message write operations, except that you set the ACK message to what was generated during the read operation as the output message under a `Data` key.
```

> For example:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace this fragment introduction with a complete sentence, per style ref.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <hl7-edi:read config-ref="HL7_EDI__Configuration1" doc:name="HL7 EDI"/>\
    ...
    <dw:transform-message doc:name="Create Outgoing Message">
      <dw:set-payload><![CDATA[%dw 1.0
%output application/java
---
{
  Name: "ACK",
  MSH: payload.ACK.MSH,
  Id: "ACK",
  Data: {
    ACK: payload.ACK
  }
}]]></dw:set-payload>
    </dw:transform-message>
    <hl7-edi:write config-ref="HL7_EDI__Configuration" messageStructure="InMessage" doc:name="ACK"/>
    ...
    <file:outbound-endpoint responseTimeout="10000" doc:name="File" path="output" outputPattern="ack.edi"/>
----

> The generated ACK messages have MSH data set up for sending back to the sender of the original message, so you don't need to change anything in the data to perform the send.

Reviewer: For sending what back to the sender?

Reviewer: And wouldn't a "send back" = "response"?

Author: It's clear the way it is to our users.

If you include an ACK message schema in your configuration, that schema is used to both receive and generate ACK messages. If you don't specify an ACK schema, the standard `hl7/v2_5_1/ACK.esl` schema default is used.

> 

Reviewer: Note that a lot of the previous text is written in passive voice.

== Exchange Templates and Examples

> https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] provides templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] provides both templates
```

> that you can use as starting points for your apps and examples that illustrate a complete solution.

Reviewer: both...templates and examples
